# ens210-project
## Kaan Temel 27745
The purpose of this project is to gain a better understanding of Gap Junction Beta 1 (GJB1) protein, also known as connexin-32. The Cx32 protein aids the myelination of neurons and is found in Schwann Cells, which are helper cells in the nervous system. A mutation in the gene responsible for making the Cx32 protein causes the X-linked version of the Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease by changing the structure and function of the protein. This change results in demyelination of axons which causes slow signal transduction across neurons. Due to the slow rate of signalling, individuals affect by the CMTX1 disease are unable to effectively control their limbs, especially arms,legs, hands and feet.In this project the GJB1 protein will be analyzed using computational methods and information from present literature. Initially, the amino acid or nucleotide sequence of the protein will be found using UniProt or NCBI database. Utilizing NCBI Blast, the versions of this protein in other organisms will be found. Then, the sequences will be aligned to be approximately the same length using MEGA. After making the alignment a position probability matrix can be made in order to locate critical residues or causes of distinction between different species. These distinctions can be clustered for different species utilizing ggplot in R software. The information acquired from BLAST and MEGA can be used in order to construct phylogenetic trees. A species tree and gene tree can be constructed in order to understand the evolutionary history of the GJB1 protein. After creating the trees in MEGA, FigTree can be used for accurate visualization.

